<!--
__author__ = "Andrew Rechnitzer"
__copyright__ = "Copyright (C) 2018-9 Andrew Rechnitzer"
__license__ = "GFDL"
 -->

# Stuff n thoughts
* IIC = manager in these readme files. They are responsible for generating the tests for the students from the source versions generated by themselves and their minions.

* An install script should generate the directory structure and scripts here for the manager. Though perhaps not the client scripts which should be available using py2exe, py2app, cxfreeze or docker?

* So we still need a 'build new test' script which instantiates all of these directories and files ready for the manager to copy the source versions into place and set things in motion.

* Perhaps the files should be renamed in the order of their use - I have tried to do this with the scripts inside each directory
  * 01_build
  * 02_scanAndGroup
  * 03_imageServer
  * 04_finishing
  * resources = dont rename since it contains files used by scripts in each of the directories. (eg some json files, some .tex files and some images)

* Have put ssl wrapper around the communication between servers and clients. Need to also put ssl around the webdav communication.

* Have implemented basic password check + authorisation tokens. Need to get this looked at by someone who actually knows this stuff.

* move from peewee sql wrapper to the qt-sql wrappers? (since the manager scripts use them anyway). they are likely more robust if the system is being pushed hard (though I can't imagine that more than about 30 TAs using this thing at any given time). Might actually be better to move to sqlalchemy rather that qt-sql.... it is a bit more widely supported and perhaps easier to code in? Mind you, we already require the Qt libraries for this project so perhaps choosing qt would mean one fewer packages to install?

* At present we cannot add / delete users to the server on the fly. Nor can we add more images to the server on the fly. Need to build communication between the userManager and the server to add / delete users. Also need to build a small 'addMorePapers' gui to send message to server asking it to reload things.

* Maybe rewrite the orientation checker in 02_scanAndGroup to take advantage of the QR-codes we already have. eg - the top half of the paper will only have the QR-code for tXpYvZ, while the bottom half has the code for tXpYvZ and also the name. So feed the two halves of the page image to zbarimg and see which half has what and then flip the image if required. Might be more robust against scaling issues etc than the current method of trying to spot the QR marker square thingy.
